Created Risk Assesment appendix. (#238)
ITU-DevOps2026/ITU-minitwit: report/sections/05-3-risk_matrix_appendix.md

## Risk Assesment

### Risk identification

#### Assets
* Web application
* Web API
* Grafana dashboard
* Prometheus instance
* Database

#### Threat Sources

> * Cookie manipulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Cookie manipulation.
```

> * Root-user on Docker images  HAR VI STADIG DETTE?!?!?

Reviewer 2: Ja, på databasen har vi. Ikke sikker på om user statementet på minitwit virker, men der er i hvert fald et.

> * Root-user on Docker images  HAR VI STADIG DETTE?!?!?

Reviewer: Kun på MySQL docker imaget.

> * DDOS attacks on our webpage, due to no limit on amount of requests.

Reviewer 2: @Noerklit satte du ikke en limit på?

Author: ip 2 ban , var specifikt sat op for SSH attacks, ikke for HTTP og HTTPS requests, da vi som udgangspunkt slet ikke afviser disse. 
Man kan tilføje det til Traefik at hvis der kommer et unreasonable mængde requests fra en ip-adresse skal det bannes, men det ville formentlig give problemer med simulatoren

> * SQL injection on our web page

Reviewer 2: er det stadig en risiko vi har?

Author: Nej, men det er en risiko der er present på hjemmesider med input. Længere nede skriver jeg også at det ikke er en réel issue, da vi bruger EF-core der er sikret mod dette.

> * SQL injection on our web page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SQL injection on our web page.
```

> * SSH attack on our server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SSH attack on our server.
```

#### Risk Scenarios
1. Attacker performs SQL injection on web application to download sensitive user data.
2. Attacker downs our website by using DDOS attacks on our webpage.
3. Attacker connects to one of our droplets via SSH attacks.
4. Attacker connects to our database and requires ransom to get the data back.

> 5. Manages to guess the credentials for the API, and DDOS attacks from this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Attacker manages to guess the credentials for the API, and uses them to perform a DDOS attack.
```

6. Attacker escalates privileges or impersonates another user, via cookies.

> 7. Attacker gets access to Grafana and exposes important information on metrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Attacker gets access to Grafana and gets access to important information through metrics.
```

### Risk Analysis
Here we use the scenarios from above, via the index of them, and determine the likelihood and impact of each of the scenarios.

#### Determine likelihood
1. Low - because we use EF-Core, which automatically parameterizes queries and escapes all input strings. As long as all database access goes through EF-Core and not raw SQL queries to the database, the probability of a successful SQL injection is very low.

> 2. HIGH - We have not set any rate limiting on our page, so all people would be able to pretty easily create a bot that would DDOS attack us.

Reviewer: Why is HIGH in all caps, when Low and Medium aren't?

3. Low - an attacker would need a compromised private key or exploit an unknown SSH vulnerability, both of which are much harder.

> 4. Low - same reasons as for numberr 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Low - same reasons as for number 3.
```

> 5. High -  these credentials are from the refactoring hardcoded in our source code, for the API, so an attacker would easily be able to see what the credentials are, and how they should be encoded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. High - these credentials are hardcoded in our source code, for the API, so an attacker would easily be able to see what the credentials are, and how they should be encoded.
```

> 6. Medium - The session cookies are encrypted via HTTPS, and expires after 15 minutes. In addition to this they expire after 15 minutes, so an attacker should be quick to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Medium - The session cookies are encrypted via HTTPS, and expires after 15 minutes, so an attacker should be quick to use it.
```

> 6. Medium - The session cookies are encrypted via HTTPS, and expires after 15 minutes. In addition to this they expire after 15 minutes, so an attacker should be quick to use it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Medium - The session cookies are encrypted via HTTPS. In addition to this they expire after 15 minutes, so an attacker should be quick to use it.
```

> 7. Medium - As the credentials are the ones Helge has posted on the Teams group, several other students of this course has access to it, and we do not know if Helge or Mirchea or another student is spreading these credentials around.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Medium - As the credentials are the ones Helge has posted on the Teams group, several other students of this course have access to it, and we do not know if Helge, Mircea or another student is spreading these credentials around.
```

> 7. Medium - As the credentials are the ones Helge has posted on the Teams group, several other students of this course has access to it, and we do not know if Helge or Mirchea or another student is spreading these credentials around.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. HIGH - As the credentials are the ones Helge has posted on the Teams group, several other students of this course has access to it, and we do not know if Helge or Mirchea or another student is spreading these credentials around.
```

Er det ikke ret sandsynligt?

Author: Yes, enig, det er rettet

#### Determine impact

> 1. High - could expose user data, and credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. High - could expose user data, and credentials.
```

> 1. High - could expose user data, and credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. HIGH - could expose user data, and credentials
```
Enten high med stort alle steder eller ingen vel - eller var det for at give en ekstra high? så måske bare skriv extreme eller noget for ikke at forvirre

> 2. High - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. High - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction.
```

> 2. High - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. HIGH - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction
```

3. High - An attacker would be able to change our program, stop it, or create a backdoor to our system.

> 4. HIGH - A hacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation

Reviewer: Why is this High written in all caps?

Author: HIGH key, not a problem

Author: Badum, tsss

> 4. HIGH - A hacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. High - A hacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation.
```

> 4. High - A hacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. High - A hacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation.
```

> 4. HIGH - A hacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. HIGH - An attacker could steal our data and demand ransom, which would damage our users and our reputation
```

For at streamline.

Author: Merged <3

> 5. High - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. High - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction.
```

> 5. High - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. HIGH - could prevent users from acessing our site, lowering the customer satisfaction
```

6. Medium - could impersonate other users and write things they do not want. However because all users have the same priveliges, it would not be more severe than this.

> 7. Medium - still data about our metrics, however it is not as important data as our secrets or user data for example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Medium - still data about our metrics, however it is not as important data as our secrets or user data for example.
```

Reviewer 3: Jeg forstår ikke hvad sætningen "still data about our metrics" skal betyde i den her sammenhæng?

> 7. Medium - still data about our metrics, however it is not as important data as our secrets or user data for example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Medium - An attacker could gain access to our log/monitoring data, however these are not as sensitive as e.g. our secrets or user data. They could also change or delete our dashboard views, but these can be restored. 
```

Desuden, kan man på nogen måde bruge grafana til at gøre noget ved minitwit eller kan den kun aflæse? min security knowledge kan ik lige vurdere om der er en risk der på nogen måde hehe

Author: Det er en risk i den grad at du kan se implementations specifikke ting som vi ikke nødvendigvis vil have omverdnen til at vide. Derfor skal det gemmes. Men enig i at i forhold til persondata er det ikke så slemt.

> 7. Medium - still data about our metrics, however it is not as important data as our secrets or user data for example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Low - still data about our metrics, however it is not as important data as our secrets or user data for example
```

Er det næsten en low impact?

Author: Hmm, jeg snakkede det lige igennem lidt med chat, og den siger stadig det er en medium, grundet at vores metrics i fortæller ting som responsetimes, og statuskoder, der kan fortælle ting som hvilke requests er det letteste til at lægge vores system ned. I forlængelse af dette er det også bare en let måde at finde ud af præcis hvordan vores system er organiseret, og derfra få en ret god plan til at, som chat siger:
"Even without directly exposing data, it gives attackers a roadmap to attack."
Men lige i vores case kunne jeg måske godt se det som en lige på grænsen til Low, da vi ikke exposer særligt meget data om hvordan det er implementeret.

#### Risk Matrix to prioritize risk of scenarios

> | Impact of risk \ Likelihood of risk | Low likelihood | medium likelihood | high likelihood |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| | Low likelihood | Medium likelihood | High likelihood |
```

tror bare hjørnet der skal væk. forstår ideen men skråstregen bliver ikke synlig og så forvirre det pludselig mere end det gavner

|------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|-----------|

> | High impact                        | **1.** SQL injection <br> **3.** SSH attack <br> **4.** ransom attack | -           | **2.** DDOS attack <br> **5** guess credentials for API to DDOS      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| High impact                        | **1.** SQL injection <br> **3.** SSH attack <br> **4.** ransom attack | -           | **2.** DDOS attack <br> **5.** guess credentials for API to DDOS      |
```

> |------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|-----------|
> | High impact                        | **1.** SQL injection <br> **3.** SSH attack <br> **4.** ransom attack | -           | **2.** DDOS attack <br> **5** guess credentials for API to DDOS      |
> | Medium impact                      | -       | **6.** cookie exploitation <br> **7.** Access to Grafana | -      |
> | Low impact                         | -       | -            | -    |
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|-----------|
| High impact                        | __1.__ SQL injection \newline __3.__ SSH attack \newline __4.__ ransom attack | -           | __2.__ DDOS attack \newline __5__ guess credentials for API to DDOS      |
| Medium impact                      | -       | __6.__ cookie exploitation \newline __7.__ Access to Grafana | -      |
| Low impact                         | -       | -            | -    |

```

<br> virkede ikke, men /newline gør. Til gengæld gjorde det at ** ikke virkede, men __ gøre :)

Author: Yes, det er staged til committet nu

#### What we could do to mitigate some of these scenarios

1. Already mitigated, also CI-CD pipeline check for security vulnerabilities.

> 2. Easily use Traefik support for setting up rate limiting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Use Traefik support for setting up rate limiting.
```

3. Already mitigated.
4. We would need to ensure that our keys are not stolen/shared to an attacker.

> 5. same solution as to 2. And then saving the credentials in a secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Same solution as to 2. And then saving the credentials in a secret.
```

6. Use Token-based authentication instead.

> 7. Create new credentials only our team knows of, and set-up 2 factor authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Create new credentials only our team knows of, and set-up 2 factor authentication.
```
